Add Auditd docs (#15530)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/server-access/guides/auditd.mdx

---
title: Configure SSH with the Linux Auditing System
description: How to configure Teleport SSH with auditd (Linux Auditing System).
h1: Linux Auditing System (auditd)
---

You can configure Teleport's SSH Service to integrate with the Linux Auditing System (auditd).

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

> - A running Teleport Node. See the [Server Access Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) for  how to add a Node to your Teleport cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A running Teleport Node. See the [Server Access Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) for  how to add a Node to your Teleport cluster. On the Node, `teleport` must be running as a systemd service with root permissions.
```
We add this requirement later in the guide, and I think it would be good to include here so users have all the prerequisites at the top of the guide.

- Linux kernel 2.6.6+ compiled with `CONFIG_AUDIT`. Most Linux distributions have this option enabled by default.
- `auditctl` to check auditd status (optional).

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

> ## Step 1/3. Check system configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1/4. Check system configuration
```
I'm suggesting turning the "How to trace SSH sessions" H2 section into a numbered step to be consistent with the format of our other how-to guides.

> Teleport automatically sends audit events when it discovers that auditd is enabled in the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport automatically sends auditd events when it discovers that auditd is enabled in the system.
```
So it's clearer that this is separate from Teleport's audit logging

You can verify that by calling `auditctl -s` as root.

Here is an example output from that command:

```bash
$ sudo auditctl -s
enabled 1
failure 1
pid 879
rate_limit 0
backlog_limit 8192
lost 0
backlog 0
backlog_wait_time 60000
backlog_wait_time_actual 0
loginuid_immutable 0 unlocked
```
The first line `enabled 1` indicates that auditd is enabled, and Teleport will send events.

> Because of the Teleport distributed nature all events are generated on SSH node, where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All events are generated on a Teleport Node. 
```

> `invalid user` events are also generated on the Proxy service when a Teleport user fails to authenticate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`invalid user` events are also generated on the Proxy Service when a Teleport user fails to authenticate.
```

> ## Step 2/3. Start Teleport

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2/4. Start Teleport
```

It's important to run Teleport as a system service (systemd service, for example) with root permissions.
Otherwise, Teleport won't send any events to auditd due to lack of permissions.

<Admonition type="warning">

  Make sure that the Teleport process has its login UID unset. Otherwise, a session ID won't be set correctly in the emitted events.
  You can verify that by calling `cat /proc/$(pidof teleport)/loginuid`. The value should be set to 4294967295.

</Admonition>

> ## Step 3/3. Enable the PAM integration (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3/4. Enable the PAM integration (optional)
```

> Auditd can generate additional events when PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules) is enabled. To enable PAM integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auditd can generate additional events when PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules) is enabled. To enable the PAM integration
```

> in Teleport add the following `pam` section to options to the SSH service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in Teleport, add the following `pam` section to the configuration file on your Teleport Node (`/etc/teleport.yaml` by default):
```

```yaml
ssh_service:
  # Enabled SSH Service
  enabled: true
  # Enable PAM integration
  pam:
    # "no" by default
    enabled: true
    # use /etc/pam.d/sshd configuration (the default)
    service_name: "sshd"
```

PAM-generated events depend on your `sshd` configuration when the integration is enabled. Most system generates events

> like `USER_ACCT` or `USER_START`. Additionally, TTY input can be logged by enabling `pam_tty_audit.so` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like `USER_ACCT` or `USER_START`. Additionally, TTY input can be logged by enabling the `pam_tty_audit.so` module.
```

For more details please refer to [PAM](./ssh-pam/#set-up-pam-on-a-linux-machine-running-teleport) or your operating system
documentation.

> When PAM integration is enabled, audit events should closely match events generated by OpenSSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When PAM integration is enabled, auditd events should closely match events generated by OpenSSH.
```
Assuming this is correct

> ## How to trace SSH session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4/4. Trace SSH sessions with auditd
```
Suggested to:
- Use the standard step format for our how-to guides
- Link this section more explicitly to auditd so users know how it ties in with the rest of the guide

There are a few ways to trace SSH sessions in Teleport. To interact with auditd events, we will use `ausearch`.
If your system is missing that tool, consult your distribution documentation to check how to install it.

### Search by a system user

> You can search events when logging in as a system user by using `-ua` switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can search events when logging in as a system user by using the `-ua` switch.
```

> You can check the UID of a user by using `id` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the UID of a user by using the `id` command:
```

```
$ id bob
uid=1000(bob) gid=1000(bob) groups=1000(bob)
```

Then you can use `uid` to search auditd logs:

```
ausearch -ua 1000 -m USER_LOGIN
```

### Search by Teleport user

> Events sent to auditd by Teleport are augmented by `teleportUser` field that contains the name of the Teleport user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events sent to auditd by Teleport are augmented by the `teleportUser` field, which contains the name of the Teleport user.
```

> `ausearch` doesn't let to search by custom fields, but you can use `grep` for that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ausearch` doesn't let you search by custom fields, but you can use `grep` for that:
```

---
title: Configure SSH with the Linux Auditing System
description: How to configure Teleport SSH with auditd (Linux Auditing System).
h1: Linux Auditing System (auditd)
---

Teleport's SSH Service can be configured to integrate with Linux Auditing System (auditd).

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A running Teleport Node. See the [Server Access Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) for  how to add a Node to your Teleport cluster.
- Linux kernel 2.6.6+ compiled with `CONFIG_AUDIT`. Most Linux distributions have this option enabled by default.
- `auditctl` to check auditd status (optional).

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Check system configuration.

> Teleport automatically sends audit events when it discovers that auditd is enabled in the system.

Author: > Is sending audit events here distinct from the Auth Service's audit log?

Yes

> Does this apply to any teleport binary, or just a teleport binary running the Auth Service?

Good point. It's more complicated as most events are generated on the SSH node, and some of them are on the proxy node. I'll add more details here.

You can verify that by calling `auditctl -s` as a root.

Here is an example output from that command:

```bash
$ sudo auditctl -s
enabled 1
failure 1
pid 879
rate_limit 0
backlog_limit 8192
lost 0
backlog 0
backlog_wait_time 60000
backlog_wait_time_actual 0
loginuid_immutable 0 unlocked
```
The first line `enabled 1` indicates that auditd is enabled, and Teleport will send events.

## Step 2/3. Start Teleport.

It's important to run Teleport as a system service (systemd service, for example) with root permissions.
Otherwise, Teleport won't send any events to auditd due to lack of permissions.

<Admonition type="warning">

  Make sure that the Teleport process has login UID unset. Otherwise, session ID won't be set correctly in the emitted events.
  You can verify that by calling `cat /proc/$(pidof teleport)/loginuid`. The value should be set to 4294967295.

</Admonition>

> 

Author: I don't think that the "raw logs" are very useful. Auditd comes with tools like `ausearch` or `aureport` that parse the raw logs and make the output more readable. I added some example usage below.

## Step 3/3. Enable PAM integration (optional).

> Auditd can generate additional events when PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules) is enabled. To enable PAM integration

Author: I added an example config and some events that PAM can generate. I'm not sure if we suppose to list all of them depending on each module, as each Linux distribution can generate slightly different events.
